wireless-network-security-assesment
A wireless network, IEEE 802.11 [1] can be used where wired networks cannot be used, for example outside. Implementing a wired network can cause problems with cable installations. Wireless networks installations can be less complicated than wired networks when it comes to adding nodes, although installing access points can be problematic. These problems come from for instance building materials, furnishing and electronic equipment, which can interfere signals. In the long perspective wireless network equipment will be less expensive than equipment to wired networks. The access points and the network interface cards to wireless are still expensive, but there is no costs for cables and their maintenance. [C] The advantages of wireless networks can be, for instance to facilitate the work to decrease the risk of typing wrong or forget information. [C] This can lead to increased productivity. The disadvantages of wireless networks are the limited range and the security aspects. [C] The limited range can from the point of security be good, because the encryption standard (WEP) in wireless networks are not secure enough. If sensitive information is transmitted over the wireless network it is recommended to use more protection. According to the dictionary security means a state without fear [E]. Security in the area of computer science refers to techniques for ensuring that data stored in a computer cannot be read or compromised by unauthorized users. Another way of perceiving security is protection against interference leading to negative consequences. Security consists of four parts [15]:

Physical security - how to prevent interference signals.
Data Security – what encryption techniques are used to protect the network against eavesdropping.
User authentication – how to protect the wireless network from unauthorized users.
User anonymity- what kind of protection is used against information gathering
